The goal of this video is to introduce you to some important terminology in linear algebra and computer
science, in particular as it relates to deep learning.
So let's dive right in.
Here we have a collections of numbers.
And those are the objects.
And here are the names.
Now this is linear algebra terminology.
This is what you would call these things in linear algebra.
So one number all on its own is called a scalar.
It's called a scalar because of the geometric interpretation of linear algebra where individual numbers
are used to stretch or shrink a vector.
So a single number just on its own that's called a scalar.
A vector is either a column or a row of numbers.
So you can see this is like one physical dimension.
The term dimensionality gets a little complicated in linear algebra, but it's one physical dimension
because it's just a list of numbers.
So we call this a vector.
This will be a column vector.
We also have row vectors that will.
This is a matrix.
But if you would just isolate this first row you can see this would be a row vector.
So column vector is standing up a row vector is laying down on its side.
So this is a vector.
A matrix is a two dimensional spreadsheet of numbers.
So this is you can think of numbers arranged in like Excel in Excel spreadsheet for example, that we
call a matrix.
And anything higher dimensional we call a tensor.
Here I'm depicting a three dimensional tensor.
So this would be like a cube of numbers.
You can imagine one of these things and then you know repeat it multiple times.
So here we have a three dimensional tensor.
And you can also have higher dimensional.
You can have 4 or 5 six dimensional tensors.
In data analysis and signal processing we work with tensors all the time in physics.
They also work with tensors a lot.
Next bit of terminology is the phrase or the term data type.
Now data type means something different in computer science versus in statistics.
So I have this slide here because, you know, some people are coming to this course with a background
in computer science.
So this is what you think of with data type.
And some people come from a background in statistics or biology or psychology.
So you're probably thinking about this kind of data type.
So data type in computer science refers to the format of data storage.
It has implications for the kinds of operations that you can perform between two different variables
how information is stored.
And some examples are like floating point numbers booleans strings.
These are different data types in computer science.
On computers.
In statistics, a data type refers to the category of data.
This describes which statistical procedures you can use.
Examples are categorical, numerical ratio, and so on.
Now it turns out that, fortunately, we don't need to worry about this ambiguity in this course, because
every time I use the term data type in the rest of this course, I'm only referring to the computer
science interpretation.
So if you're coming from if you're coming from a computer science or engineering background, then you
just ignore all this stuff on the right.
It's just going to confuse you.
If you're coming from a stats background and this is what you think of when you think of data type,
then also don't worry about this data type is just going to mean things like representing numbers in
Python, using floating point precision or integers or booleans and things like that.
So for example, these two numbers here have different data types.
This is an integer.
This is a floating point number.
And when we get to Python then yeah there's also different data types in Python.
So this is a list.
This is a numpy array.
This is a PyTorch tensor.
So the numerical values that each of these things are representing is the same, but the data type,
the way that they are stored and represented on computers is different.
Now this is important because different operations will only work on, uh, sometimes different operations
only work on specific data types.
So you will come across instances where we need to convert lists into numpy arrays.
There's going to be other operations that we try to do in PyTorch that won't work.
We'll get errors because the data type is numpy.
But PyTorch wants wants to work with PyTorch tensors, even though the values, the numbers are the
same, the data type is important.
So on that note, now I need to show you this slide again.
Now this is not only linear algebra terminology.
Here in the top row.
This is the linear algebra terminology.
Here I have the corresponding numpy and PyTorch terminology.
So PyTorch numpy calls this thing an array.
So vectors are called an array.
And then matrices and tensors we get into ndarray.
This is n is for the number of dimensions.
So we have a multi-dimensional array.
And that's what numpy calls matrices and tensors.
And PyTorch with a data type is tensors.
So PyTorch is just going to call all of these things tensors.
We're going to convert.
Even individual numbers are going to be stored using the data type in PyTorch the data type Torch.tensor.
Now this is not something that you need to worry about right now.
You don't need to be concerned about this now.
I'm just giving you a heads up because this is going to become important later on when we start getting
into the details of implementing deep learning in PyTorch and NumPy.
So in this video you learned about different terminology for collections of numbers in linear algebra
and on computers, and with NumPy and PyTorch.